♪ Thank you for bein' a friend ♪
♪ Traveled down the road and back again ♪
♪ Your heart is true ♪
♪ You're a pal and a confidante ♪
♪ And if you threw a party ♪
♪ Invited everyone you knew ♪
♪ You would see the biggest gift
Would be from me ♪
♪ And the card attached would say ♪
♪ "Thank you for bein' a friend" ♪
(doorbell rings)
Somebody get that.
I'll just be a minute.
-I'm not dressed yet. Rose?
-Sophia, would you mind?
Why not? I'm over 80.
I've had plenty of chances to rest
in my lifetime.
Today alone, I probably
sat down three, four times.
I'll answer the door,
then I'll hot tar the roof.
-Hello.
Hello. Tell me,
how many of me do you see?
-We're twins.
-We're here to see Blanche.
She's back on the vitamins. Come in.
-Hello, Rob.
-Hello, Blanche.
You didn't tell me your brother Bob
was a twin.
You didn't tell me your roommate
was grandma Moses.
Why don't I fix your face
so you don't look like twins?
Sophia.
-This is Dorothy's mother.
-Dorothy will be joining us tonight.
I'm sorry I kept you waiting.
This is Rob and his brother Bob.
I swear I've seen you before.
Oh, there you are!
That's a joke.
Blanche didn't mention you're twins.
-I never met Bob until tonight.
-I told you we were exactly alike.
You'll be thanking me for years.
(doorbell rings)
At least we won't argue over who has
the cuter date.
-Oh, Stanley.
-We need to talk.
Stan's her ex-husband.
Biggest loser you'll ever see. Hi.
Always good to see you, too.
I'm going out. We'll talk another time.
In future, I'd appreciate some notice
before you drop by.
Let's say one, two, six months.
I have papers we need to go over
before the surgery.
Surgery?
Finally going ahead
with that hair transplant?
Not everybody knows this isn't real.
Oh, please.
Stevie Wonder could tell it's a rug.
I wish it were only a hair transplant.
Look, go out, have fun.
I'll still be here when
you return, God willing.
We're seeing Merv Griffin in the crucible.
I'll risk it.
Come on. Let's go.
I made these plans a week ago.
How can I disappoint Rob?
-Bob.
Stan.
Stan, are we talking life and death?
The doctors say I'm lucky to be talking.
Hi, everybody.
Rose, could you
take my place with Rob?
-Bob.
I'm driving the bookmobile
for the grief center.
I thought you do that during the day.
I got tied up at work and didn't have
time. Now I feel so guilty.
There are so many depressed people
with nothing to read.
When I'm depressed, I can't read. I knit.
Maybe I should drive a knitmobile.
Maybe she should drive a nitwitmobile.
You'd better call a friend.
Boys, would you mind waiting in the car?
I want to talk to Dorothy.
Sure. Come on, Rob.
-Bob!
I think I have to stay.
I'm sure you can get somebody.
I confess I have mixed feelings
about calling anybody.
There's something strangely provocative
about this evening.
I'd never have a relationship
with both twins at the same time.
That would be obscene.
Unless, of course, it was tastefully done.
What do you want to see me about?
Not now. Finish your thought, Blanche.
Into the kitchen, Stanley.
I'll just send one home.
Only which one?
I used to have this recurring dream
about twins.
They always killed each other over me.
Maybe I'll drive.
I have a recurring dream.
John Cameron Swayze
straps a Timex to my chin
and tosses me across an icy pond.
I looked in a book of symbols.
It wasn't there.
That's it. I'm done.
What should I do, bring down a curtain?
Bypass surgery.
You mean, heart bypass?
The doctor says the problem's been
brewing for years.
I don't understand.
I exercise, eat healthy.
Your idea of healthy eating
is taking the skin off a knockwurst.
Whatever.
He says I don't have a choice anymore.
Oh, Dorothy.
You have to try to pull yourself together.
Don't worry. I'm a survivor.
The cat who's going to cut me is primo.
I said pull yourself together,
not talk like Sammy Davis Jr.
I only meant that the operation
is a very common procedure.
Everything will turn out fine.
On the other hand,
they are cracking open my chest
and slicing my heart
like the lox platter at Wolfie's.
Good. Someone's going for lox.
And get some bagels, an assortment.
Ma, Stanley's having
bypass surgery on Friday.
I'm not asking him to walk.
He can take the car.
No poppy seeds.
They get caught under my dentures.
At least you could pretend
you're concerned.
Really, I'm worried sick.
Also, half a dozen sour pickles
and two prune Danish.
I want the lox to visit,
not set up shop there.
Ma, this is serious surgery.
Surgery is the easy part.
-Who's going to take care of you after?
-I don't know.
Think about it.
You're alone. No one likes you.
-Be nice, ma.
-You'll come here.
Not that nice, ma.
Dorothy, he's still family.
It's your fault he's family,
but let's not dwell on that.
The yutz could die.
Sophia's got a point.
-What am I going to do?
-Ma's right. You'll recover here.
You can have my room
till you're better.
You're the greatest.
I don't know what to say.
Are your ears clogged, too?
Let me start again.
Half a pound of lox, a dozen bagels,
two prune Danish, six sour pickles,
and a container of cream cheese.
(knock on door)
Come in.
Well, tomorrow's the big day.
Are you excited?
Rose...
he's having a bypass,
not going off to college.
You'll be just fine.
-I brought you some clean towels.
-Babe, you're a remarkable woman.
I said towels, Stanley, not a kidney.
-She's trying hard to be brave.
-She's very convincing.
Have a wonderful night, Stan.
We wanted to wish you luck
in case we don't see you again.
Before you leave...
for the hospital,
not another world. I...
Let's not bother him.
Let Stan rest in peace.
Oh. Sorry.
I'm going to pack your bag tonight.
We have to leave at 7:30 tomorrow,
so you can be admitted by 8.
-Dorothy?
-Yeah?
I really appreciate
everything you're doing.
I know.
I've never been this scared.
You said yourself it's
a very common operation.
-Still, something could go wrong.
-There's always a chance.
When there's a chance with me,
it usually does.
The way I figure it...
I'm going to die, Dorothy.
-You're not going to die.
-Yes, I am. I'm going to die.
There are things I have to say to you.
I love you, Dorothy.
It's crazy coming from a guy
who walked out after 38 years,
but it's true.
I've already forgiven you for that.
Besides, it's not so terrible
to wait 38 years
to make your first big mistake.
It wasn't my first mistake.
What?
Remember the chain-link fence
retailers convention
in Atlantic City in 1957?
Oh, God.
You had an affair at the convention.
There was no convention.
I just had an affair.
-Oh, Stanley!
-She didn't mean a thing to me.
She was a waitress in a Greek diner.
She'd put rolls on the table
and say, "Can I butter your buns, Stan?"
One morning, she said it,
and there were no rolls on the table.
Next thing I knew,
we were in Atlantic City.
It was just that one time. Forgive me.
Forgive you. I'm sitting at home
with two screaming kids,
praying you'll sell enough chain link
to put food on the table,
and you're planting your
flag on Mount Olympus.
You make it sound so cheap.
Tell me you understand.
-Forgive me before they cut open my heart.
-They may have to stand in line.
-Dorothy, please!
-Oh, all right.
All right. You're off the hook, Stanley.
Go to the hospital with a clean
conscience. I forgive you.
You've got the compassion of a priest...
but you'd have to be
the Vatican softball team
to forgive me for the other time.
The other time?
I didn't mean it to happen.
I was in the bar in that Greek diner.
A woman sat next to me.
We talked, drank, broke dishes.
I came to in a motel
with my toupee in my mouth.
I cannot believe I am hearing this.
I always assumed
something like this could happen.
I figured it would be with that
blonde secretary
who couldn't type or take shorthand.
You're wrong on two counts.
She could take shorthand,
and we did have an affair.
I am shocked.
That airhead could take shorthand?
Tomorrow I'm checking into the hospital.
I may never come out.
I want you to know, despite everything,
I've never loved anyone as much as you.
I know that, Stan.
Then you forgive me?
I forgive you.
I feel so much better.
And that makes me
feel so much better.
Ma, where were you?
We've been worried.
Rachel Devito's in this hospital.
She slipped in the shower,
broke her hip...
fell through the shower doors,
hit her head against the sink...
got a concussion
and swallowed her dentures.
To hear her complain,
no one else has problems.
-I took some cookies. You hungry?
-No. I'm too upset to eat.
They're doing everything they can.
-I know. I'm sorry. I'm just scared.
-Understandable.
No, it's surprising.
When I was married to Stan,
there were moments
when I'd look at my life and think,
"oh, my God, what if I lost him?"
Guess you can't turn your back
on 38 years of living
because part of me feels that way
right now. I didn't expect it.
I thought the next I went through this,
it'd be for ma.
Maybe I can fall and break my hip
so you won't have to return.
It's strange.
If anything happened to Stan,
I would feel like his widow.
I know I'm not, but...
we've been through so much,
that's how I'd feel.
I remember the first time
anybody called me a widow.
I was terribly lonely and depressed,
just missing George something awful.
My best friend Rebecca Sue Bliss
persuaded me to join her for a night out.
We no sooner stepped into
the boots and saddle grill,
than these two brawny truckers came over
and offered us a drink.
Then one of the truckers
noticed my wedding band.
I was so stunned, I couldn't speak.
Becky sue spoke, saying, "She's a widow."
-You poor baby.
-I know.
The next time I decided to party
when George was out of town on business,
I left that wedding ring home.
-You were unfaithful to George?
-Of course not.
I was flirting. Nothing wrong with that.
Keeps you healthy, keeps you in shape,
keeps your buttocks firm.
And I wasted all that time on jazzercise.
I hate being called a widow.
It sounds permanent and final.
I don't believe it is.
Someday Charlie and I
are gonna be together again.
Probably not in the old house.
We don't need much room.
The kids are grown and we'll be dead.
-Excuse me, Mrs. Zbornak?
-Yes.
I'm Dr. Steven Deutsch.
Mr. Zbornak's out of surgery,
and he's doing fine.
Oh, thank God.
He's in recovery and should be out
of intensive care within 48 hours.
Oh, ma.
I understand he'll be spending
his recovery period with you.
-That's right, doctor.
-Well, it's a critical time for him.
With proper care, there's no reason
he won't be good as new
-within three months.
-Did you say three months?
Ma, he said three months.
You call that wrestling?
If you can't take a crotch slam,
get out of the business.
This is great.
You and me watching television.
There's a great basketball game on 7.
It's ok to leave your room,
but not to talk.
I'm an expert in basketball.
It's one interesting thing about me.
You've lived here two months.
There's nothing interesting about you.
I mean it. Ask me anything.
When the hell are you leaving?
-You kill me.
-Love to.
-Oh, hello there, Stanley.
-Hi, guys.
You wait here, honey. You'll never guess
what this wonderful fool did.
He bought a fire-engine red convertible.
Put it on his credit card.
I'll get a wrap.
Hey, dude, so you won out.
I figured you would.
I overheard Blanche telling the others
that you got the brains, charm
and sex appeal,
while your twin brother, Rob the slob,
batted a big fat zero.
Ok, Rob, I'm ready. Let's go.
You're Rob?
Bye, Blanche.
-Why? Wh-- what's wrong?
-Ask him.
Stan?
I thought Rob was Bob.
I said something I shouldn't have.
Stan, I'm going to kill you.
Do you know what this is?
-It's a plate I dropped.
-This is not just a plate.
It's a family heirloom.
It's great-great-grandma Nylund's
ceremonial wedding plate.
Wedding plate?
The bride's family fills the plate
with fruit.
At the wedding, the guests eat from it.
Then the bride and groom
leave to start their wedding night...
which takes place in a tent
or a best western.
A best western?
The Vikings have always been a very
progressive people.
Anyway, that's when it's time
for the husband
to symbolically offer himself
to his new bride on the plate.
Yecch! I ate a tuna sandwich
on that plate this afternoon.
I'll never forgive you.
My niece is getting married in the spring.
What's her husband going to do?
I'll bet a gravy boat
would work in a pinch.
I tried three different stores,
but I found what you wanted
to help you sleep.
Wow, strawberry quik.
You are the best, babe.
I'm going to take a shower.
Could you bring me a mug of that stuff?
-Dorothy, that man is driving me crazy.
-We have to get him to leave.
I know how difficult Stanley is.
I lived with him for 38 years.
He's recovering from major surgery.
He needs us.
-He's taking advantage of you.
-He is sick.
He has to decide
when he's ready to leave.
Well, sometimes people need help
making decisions.
That's the way it was with Thor.
Our pet lamb.
From when he was first separated
from his mother,
he wouldn't eat, sleep, or frolic
with the other sheep.
You're slipping into verse, Rose.
Keep it simple.
Daddy got the idea of taking
this old inner tube, wrapping it in wool,
and putting it next to Thor's bed.
We named it Brunhilda,
and it did the trick.
Thor thought it was his mother.
He began eating, sleeping...
-Frolicking.
Yes.
Then one day,
Thor got a little playful
and accidentally bit Brunhilda.
The poor little guy stood there watching
his mother deflate before his very eyes.
He was never the same.
Sure, once in a while he'd baa...
at the back tires of a parked car.
-For the most part, he kept to himself.
-I see your point.
-You do?
-Who cares?
You want to hear the sequel?
The point is, Stan's getting too
comfortable here. He may never leave.
-She's right.
-She is not.
He is recuperating.
He is not getting comfortable.
He doesn't want to stay here.
-Stan, you're wearing my robe.
-Tell me about it.
Which one of Stan's angels
forgot my dry cleaning?
Oh, wow. Cheesecake.
Mmm.
I just love it when we all get together
like this.
Strange, you getting a relapse the very
day the doctor says you're ready to leave.
-Well, the heart's a funny organ.
-I bet most of your organs get a laugh.
-Blanche, I sense some hostility.
-Good, because I hate you.
She's just a little edgy
because we've taken care
of you for two months,
and you've made life
generally unbearable.
That's not very charitable.
What's for lunch?
We've been more than charitable.
In the village of my ancestors,
if a man was bad company,
unable to provide for his family,
and no fun under the yak skin...
the women left him in the snow to die.
Tough village.
Dr. Deutsch says there's nothing
to worry about.
Some patients do experience
a sudden setback like this
just when their recovery
seems to be complete.
Boy, what rotten luck.
I guess I was pushing myself too hard,
trying to do too many things.
Could you hand me the remote control
from the top of the television.
You get some sleep.
Maybe you're right.
Wake me for lunch, ok, babe?
...15 on the clock
and Davis brings the ball to midcourt.
He's making a move.
He's driving. It's up, it's good!
You feeling better, magic?
Dorothy... Dorothy, I...
I know this sounds insane...
but I thought a little activity
would help me snap this setback.
I was wrong. I should just rest.
Help me into bed.
Stanley, how could you fake a relapse?
Do I deserve this?
I took care of you.
I defended you to my friends.
I mean, why did you do this?
I'm scared, Dorothy...
scared of being alone.
This whole experience
has made me feel so vulnerable...
so mortal.
Being here with you
makes me feel secure.
Sure, it's great having somebody
cook your meals, clean your room,
do your laundry, entertain you,
but that's not why I wanted to stay.
It's just a bonus.
I wanted to stay because I'm happiest
with the people I love.
Oh, Stanley.
Stanley, you know, in all the years
that we've been together...
I don't think you ever
opened up to me this way...
and poured out such crap.
Didn't buy any of it, huh?
Not true. I believe you're scared.
You've just discovered something
most of us have known for years...
life doesn't always turn out your way.
I found that out when you divorced me.
I was scared and alone... but I survived.
And now you will, too...
'cause you have to.
Does this mean you're throwing me out?
No, I'm pushing you out of the nest.
You can't run here
whenever you have a problem.
I'm not your mother.
I'm not even your wife anymore.
Stanley, it's time that you grew up.
Happy birthday, Peter Pan.
(theme music playing)